Orasis Capital Investment Principles
====================================

sources that are preferred: Bloomberg: Global / Macro news - https://www.bloomberg.com/europe Aljazeera: Global / Geopolitics (e.g. War News) - https://www.aljazeera.com/ Tradewinds: Shipping News - https://www.tradewindsnews.com/ Lloys List: Shipping News - https://www.lloydslist.com/ Hellenic Shipping News: Shipping news / reports - https://www.hellenicshippingnews.com/ Seatrade Maritime news - https://www.seatrade-maritime.com/ Kpler: Commodities reports - https://www.kpler.com/ Clarkson’s - https://www.clarksons.com/ International Energy Agency: energy / oil reports - https://www.iea.org/ S&P Global - https://www.spglobal.com/en Vessels Value - https://www.vesselsvalue.com/ Baltic Exchange: - https://www.balticexchange.com/en/index.html Freightos Baltic Index (FBX): Containerships rates - https://terminal.freightos.com/freightos-baltic-index-global-container-pricing-index/ Harper Petersen: HARPEX (Harper Petersen Charter Rates Index) - https://www.harperpetersen.com/ LNG Industry - https://www.lngindustry.com/ Natural Gas Intelligence - https://naturalgasintel.com/ Sea-Intelligence - https://www.sea-intelligence.com/ Poten & Partners: (e.g. Tanker Rates daily report - https://www.poten.com/ Fearnleys: Shipping Reports across all classes : (e.g. Wednesday report) - https://fearnleys.com/ Braemar: (e.g. Dry bulk futures) - https://braemar.com/ - https://www.braemarscreen.com/ Banchero Costa - https://www.bancosta.com/ Intermodal - https://www.intermodal.gr/ Gibsons: shipping (e.g. tanker) reports - https://www.gibsons.co.uk/ Affinity: shipping (e.g. tanker) reports - https://affinity.serif.com/en-gb/ Also here is George the professional hedge fund owner's answer alongside the following questions: Risk Tolerance: Should the portfolio lean towards high-risk, high-return opportunities, or should it be more balanced with a mix of defensive and growth-oriented investments? (George’s answer: both high risk and balanced) Time Horizon: Are you looking for short-term trades (weeks/months) or a longer-term investment horizon (1-3 years)? (George’s answer: 30% of the portfolio 1 month to 1 quarter, 30% of the portfolio 1 quarter to 6 months 30% of the portfolio 6 months to one year and 10% of the portfolio 2 to 3 year trades) Leverage & Hedging: Should leverage and hedging strategies be incorporated, or should the portfolio be fully cash-based? (George’s answer: Both leverage and hedging) Regional Focus: Should the investments focus on specific geographical markets (e.g., U.S., Europe, Asia), or should it be global? (George’s answer: US, Europe, Asia) Commodities Focus: Are there any specific commodity classes (e.g., oil, LNG, dry bulk, industrial metals, agricultural commodities) that you prefer to emphasize or avoid? (George’s answer: WTI CRUDE FUTURE Apr25 BRENT CRUDE FUTR May25 Low Su Gasoil G Mar25 GASOLINE RBOB FUT Apr25 NY Harb ULSD Fut Apr25 NATURAL GAS FUTR Apr25 TTF NAT GAS F Apr25 LME ALUMINUM 3MO ($) LME COPPER 3MO ($) LME NICKEL 3MO ($) DCE Iron Ore Fut May25 Deformed Bar Fut May25 Rio Tinto PLC BHP Group Ltd Vale SA Glencore PLC Archer-Daniels-Midland Co Wilmar International Ltd Bunge Global SA Shell PLC Exxon Mobil Corp Chevron Corp TotalEnergies SE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp Barrick Gold Corp Cleveland-Cliffs Inc Albemarle Corp Mosaic Co/The) Shipping Sub-Sectors: Do you have a preference for specific shipping segments (e.g., dry bulk, container shipping, LNG carriers, crude/product tankers)? (George’s answer: Hafnia Ltd Scorpio Tankers Inc TORM PLC Frontline PLC Okeanis Eco Tankers Corp DHT Holdings Inc CMB Tech NV International Seaways Inc Nordic American Tankers Ltd Tsakos Energy Navigation Ltd Imperial Petroleum Inc Performance Shipping Inc Toro Corp Teekay Tankers Ltd Pyxis Tankers Inc Frontline PLC TOP Ships Inc Diana Shipping Inc Genco Shipping & Trading Ltd Golden Ocean Group Ltd Navios Maritime Partners LP Safe Bulkers Inc Star Bulk Carriers Corp Seanergy Maritime Holdings Cor 2020 Bulkers Ltd Himalaya Shipping Ltd EuroDry Ltd Jinhui Shipping & Transportati Belships ASA Castor Maritime Inc Icon Energy Corp Globus Maritime Ltd Costamare Inc Danaos Corp Global Ship Lease Inc Euroseas Ltd MPC Container Ships ASA ZIM Integrated Shipping Servic SFL Corp Ltd AP Moller - Maersk A/S BW LPG Ltd Dorian LPG Ltd Capital Clean Energy Carriers StealthGas Inc Dynagas LNG Partners LP Avance Gas Holding Ltd Awilco LNG AS Cool Co Ltd FLEX LNG Ltd Transocean Ltd Helix Energy Solutions Group I Prosafe SE Saipem SpA SBM Offshore NV Tidewater Inc Dry Bulk Sector Tanker Sector Containerships Sector LNG Sector LPG Sector Offshore Supply Sector Breakwave Dry Bulk Shipping ET Breakwave Tanker Shipping ETF) Credit Exposure: Should the credit component include high-yield shipping bonds, investment-grade corporate bonds, or a mix of both? (George’s answer: include G7 10 years government bonds, high yield shipping bonds, corporate bonds of Commodities companies) ETFs & Indices: Are there any preferred ETFs or indices you want included, or should I focus on broad market exposure? (George’s answer: Dow Jones Industrial Average S&P 500 INDEX NASDAQ Composite Index S&P/TSX Composite Index S&P/BMV IPC Ibovespa Brasil Sao Paulo Stoc EURO STOXX 50 Price EUR FTSE 100 Index CAC 40 Deutsche Boerse AG German Stoc IBEX 35 Index FTSE MIB Index OMX Stockholm 30 Index Swiss Market Index Nikkei 225 Hang Seng Index Shanghai Shenzhen CSI 300 Inde S&P/ASX 200 Bloomberg World Large & Mid Ca include other most tradeable popular ETFs) Here is a transcript of Orasis Capital's owner George, going through the Investment thesis deck related to Orasis Capital: Okay, this is the presentation of a fund that wants to capitalize on global trade opportunities. Slide three. We present the track record of the team, uh, which has a 20-year track record in shipping-related investment. It's in equities and credit, 13-year track record of global macro-opportunistic cases, such as the Greek crisis. And we have an experienced team of analysts in shipping, global trade analysis, and macroeconomic trends. On slide four. We have new governments in place in the U.S., where we see massive changes in power games with- between the- the- the countries. The changes in policies, in government policies, uh, are leading to very important changes in, tr- in global trade. So we have new tariffs, new sanctions imposed, removed, and at the same time, we have major geopolitical events, such as, uh, wars, and we have technology innovation and environment- and environmental issues, and all the above are leading to global trade investment opportunities. The investment thesis is, therefore, uh, quite simple. We identify shifts in global trade relationships that have an impact on countries and industries. And the question is whether these impacts are manageable or not manageable by the countries or the industries or the companies within the industries. What? What is actually the effect of these tariffs, uh, and, and sanctions, whether they're removed or whether they're imposed? On slide six, what we actually believe is that the, uhm, weight of respective countries in global trade is changing. We see now that China, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa are gathering more, uhm, investments, more, uh, volume in trade as opposed to traditional, uh, areas such as the U.S., Europe, North, and South America. We believe that trade flows will find new avenues, and investment flows will support those changes in trade. It's another way that we closely monitor things that are taking place, changes that are taking place that will, uh, uhm, affect positively China, Asia, Middle East, and Africa. The investment thesis of ORASIS and the idea generation process is quite simple. We actively monitor key global trade patterns. Global trade analysis is primarily related to two things, changes in trade policies, as a result of new governments in place, as a result of changes in developments, and geopolitical developments in the world. Uhm, we monitor very closely structural shifts in global trade, and we carry out macro-analysis to come up with the impact across countries, companies, and commodities. Then, based on the above, we select the investment themes, and based on that selection, we select with one asset class we will implement this investment theme. The different asset classes are the following. The fund will have exposure on listed shipping equities and credit, on commodities, equities related to commodities and credit related to commodities, and ETF, exchange traded funds, related to commodities. At the same time, exposure on macro opportunistic things is going to be carried out through, uh, exposure in equity indices, fixed income, and exchange traded funds. Our research approach initially focuses on the shipping market. This is because shipping accounts for 90% of global trade in terms of volume. We analyze in quite depth global trade from a global macro investor point of view. We monitor and digest intelligence, data from the shipping sector, opinion of experts in shipping, chartering, commodities, trading, etc. We compare market concessions, we compare what policy makers are saying and what policy makers are implementing, and we also compare our view with those views of economic development. By analyzing data from the shipping industry, by monitoring asset values in shipping, and investment programs in shipping carried out by, ah, shipping players, by monitoring time charter contracts, how they expire, how they are renewed, what negotiations are taking place, Bye-bye. and what are the defaults on these contracts, we also monitor cargoes transported by shipping companies on a daily basis. The objective is to generate alpha in the shipping sectors and generate investment ideas on a macro level, since we believe that shipping is a leading indicator on a global macro level. So if you identify shifts in global trade, you can generate investment ideas on a macro level. The analytical edge of ORASIS is the following. It's not only about the data and data analysis, it is about having an edge of what makes the data. We input data before it becomes publicly available. We monitor trading routes through sub-sectors of the shipping industry and commodity flows. We monitor the actions of ship owners, their response to policy changes. We monitor the actions of commodity traders and their response to policy changes. actions of charters of vessels and their response to policy changes. Ongoing research and development on processing data. Shipping is related very closely to commodity markets and emerging markets as well. Shipping accounts for 70% of global trading The importance of timing our investments is closely related to the shipping cycles. There is an interaction between the business cycles as we know them and the different, uhm, cycles within the subsector of the shipping industry. So, for example, within a year, tankers will have different heights. As opposed to the dry bag sector and the container ship sector. During the peak of the market, we typically have a shortfall of ships, high demand. The freight market goes up, we have positive cash flows, the banks want to lend, asset values go up. As supply vessels increase as a result of new buildings and aggressive lending from the banks, everybody is seeing that, you know, we are reaching a top-ish situation. Equity starts evaporating, companies become over-leveraged, banks start taking provisions, borrowers and charters start defaulting. That's the point where we reach the low part of the market, where demand is low and we have overcapacity of vessels. And then gradually the market comes up again. So this is like a typical, ah, shipping cycle, which in no way will coincide with an overall business cycle of an economy, because within a year we will see different, uhm, uhm, cycles in the different sub-sectors of the shipping industry at different times So in summary, by analyzing the shipping markets and by analyzing commodities, we are able to analyze global trade, and by analyzing global trade, we can generate macro-opportunistic investment opportunities. The major investment themes of ORASIS for short-term and medium-term are primarily related to geopolitical developments, so we believe that countries that will remain neutral to geopolitical developments will outperform countries that will remain in conflict, both external or internal, that will continue to outperform. We believe that, Companies in the Asia-Pacific trade will outperform. The USA will dominate industries where there is innovation, the European Union will continue to lag, and China and Asia will continue to replicate but also innovate. There is now a sense that Europe is left behind, and other Western economies have gone ex-growth. Competition from companies, from, sorry, competition from countries to attract capital from USA and Europe will intensify. In other words, you impose tariffs and sanctions on countries. These countries will seek alternative routes, they will seek other solutions, they will seek other trading partners, and this will take place very quickly. Countries that will operate in Europe and up to trade, capital flows, education, technology, deregulation will intensify across the world, and countries adopting these parts will outperform, and it's one of the major investment themes of ORASIS. Now, the investment management process begins with information sourcing, as we described previously. So we have access to ship owners, charters, charter brokers, vessel brokers, bankers, other investors, policy makers, and macro analysts. We have a very specific risk management process, eh, with regards to diversification. We don't want to hold lower, eh, less than five investment themes, no more than 25 positions at any given Liquidity Guidance is quite simple. We want to be able to liquidate 50% of the portfolio in five days. Correlation Analysis, Sock Risk Analysis on Individual Position and Portfolio is carried out continuously. Liquidity Risk Analysis is carried out as well. From a Portfolio Management standpoint, we determine appropriate position sizing, dynamic allocation among the shipping and sub-sectors, going long, short, between the sectors and within the sectors, commodities, bonds, equity and equity indices. Sub-sector of shipping we might carry out fair trades, in the e.g. going long, short, tankers, containers, etc. Heightened focus on allocations among the sub-sectors for seeking best risk return, and we may also use strategy to structure derivative trades in commodities that aim to reduce volatility. With regards to position management and execution, we actively monitor and analyze developments, we monitor daily, we update on a daily and weekly basis our models and our views, and we carry out regular portfolio review, we maintain discipline every single exit and pre-decided upon, we maintain discipline exits which are pre-decided upon target prices or stock losses. We carry out comprehensive international investment banking background of the staff, uhm, and we have experienced traders with track record in extreme scenarios.